## The Strange Chess Game

### The Problem 

Two chess players are playing a game: P1 chooses a single tile on an 8x8 chessboard. P2 chooses a column and a row and asks: Is your tile either in this row or in this column? P1 answers truthfully Y/N. How many questions on minimum are required to get the exact tile P1 chose?

### Key Insight Chain

Here we need to define some values and information:

- The amount of tiles is bound to $t = 64$
- The amount of rows is bound to $r = 8$
- The amount of columns is bound to $c = 8$

### Solving

And now we define the chosen square as $(x,y)$ where $x \in \{1, 2... 8\}$ and $y \in \{1, 2... 8\}$. With the first eight questions he will ask about squares where $(x, y)$ are actually the same value. After eight questions, he can't possibly receive a "No" answer since he tried every row and every column! If he received a single "Yes" answer, he would know the exact tile. Had he received two "Yes" answers, on the ninth question he'd ask about one of these tiles of $(x_1, y_1)$ and $(x_2, y_2)$, which would mean he has figured it out.

However, eight questions aren't enough if we assume P1 is a dirty cheater and didn't pick any square: he'd simply answer questions as they fit his narrative and goals and would reposition his square into a set of squares that P2 hasn't tried to find the row or column of. Assuming we did receive a "No" answer there (which we would, since we tried everything), on Q9 we would be able to tell him that he's cheating.

Thus, we have two scenarios:
1. P1 doesn't cheat and plays fair - we need 9 questions minimum to find the exact tile. If we get a single Yes answer (which is guaranteed), we found the tile. If we get two, we use the ninth question to eliminate one tile and then we have the target. We can't get more than three.
2. P1 cheats - we try every square on the board after 8 questions - still "No", which goes against the rules, but I digress - we use Q9 to catch him. 

Therefore, the minimum amount of questions required to get the exact tile P1 chose in any scenario, whether fair or not, is **9**.