# Standard 001

**Authors:** Fedor Palko

## Thesis

The S001 standard allows for easy validation of trading strategies based purely on mathematical calculations and theories. We aim to ground our strategy mathematically and design rules which work market-agnostic and should be a healthy indicator of strategy feasibility. In this document we outline both the standard, and an example strategy that is compliant.

The example strategy is meant for institutions designed to grow capital. Think quant prop firms or retail traders.

## Development Plan

1. Defining the strategy scope, trading style
2. Mathematical analysis
3. Strategy design
4. Strategy implementation
5. Backtests, iteration
6. Conclusion

## 1. Defining the scope

### 1.1. Basic constraints

Before we can design the strategy itself, we need to set some basic information that we will work with:
- The strategy will be backtested and paper traded with a budget of $100,000\$$ on the Binance exchange.
- Our primary goal is to achieve steady growth without low-moderate risk levels.
- Our trading approach will be momentum/trend following on the 4h timeframe.
- We will only trade high-market cap pairs (excl. stable coins like `USDT` or `USDC`)
- Our position sizing will be conservative, with only $1-2\%$ risked per each trade.
- The Binance fee structure for futures and limit orders has been calculated as a single round-trip rate that we account for, set as $f = 0.0004$
- We will not trade with any leverage whatsoever (so 1x)

And then some elementary, pre-phase II mathematical criteria the strategy must pass:
- It must exceed a winrate of $W$
- Its expected growth rate per each trade must be $G > 0$
- Its maximum drawdown must not exceed $D_{max}$
- Its profit factor must be $PF > 1$

The specific values for the variables will be grounded after the in-depth mathematical analysis.

## 2. Mathematical analysis

### 2.1. Methods

In order to find the values of $W, G, D_{max}, PF$ we will utilize:
- Integration to find the value from $W \in [\omega_{min}, \omega_{max}]$. For realistic purposes, we will set $\omega_{min} = 0.35$ and $\omega_{max} = 0.65$ to match standard institutional win rates.
- Integration to find $R_w$ (the reward ratio in the standard R:R), if $R_w \in [\rho_{min}, \rho_{max}]$. We will set $\rho_{min} = 1$ and $\rho_{max} = 3$ to match conventional R:R ratios.
- Integration to find $D_{max}$ (the maximum drawdown), if $D_{max} \in [\delta_{min}, \delta_{max}]$

Our main rule is simple: **finding the maximum amount of $G$ possible thanks to integrals**.